PROFESSOR: Next, we'll talk
about environment diagrams.
So environment diagrams
are a way for us
to keep track of what's going
on within the Python interpreter
when it executes a
program that we type in.
Environments are real things.
So they are the way in which an
interpreter for a programming
language keeps track
of what names mean.
So it's sort of
memory that keeps
track of the bindings
between names and values.
So we're going to draw pictures
of what they look like.
And this will help you become
a better computer scientist.
Lots of what computer
scientists do
is draw pictures that involve
boxes and arrows pointing
to other boxes.
It's just a huge part
of the discipline,
so you might as well start now.
Okay, so an environment
diagram is there
to visualize the
interpreter's process
so that we can really understand
how programs get executed.
And they look like this.
So you have some
code on the left,
and then you have some
frames on the right.
And the code is just regular
Python code with some arrows
to indicate where we are in
the process of execution.
And the frames keep
track of the bindings
between names and values.
Okay, so the code's on the left,
the frames are on the right.
Within the code, there are
statements and expressions.
So we see an import statement
and an assignment statement
here.
The arrows indicate
the evaluation order.
So the gray one says
this was just executed.
And the red one says
this is next to execute.
It hasn't happened yet.
Okay, frames on the right
show bindings between names,
pi is a name, and values.
There's a name,
there is a value.
Within a frame-- this
is hugely important.
This is part of
the Python process.
Within a frame, a name
cannot be repeated.
It has to be bound to
at most, one value.
We saw the consequences of
this when we rebounded the name
max to a new number.
Instead of the
original function,
the old binding was lost.
Okay, so those are code on
the left, frames on the right,
and environment diagram.
These are going to get more
complicated, but also more
necessary.
Because when there are lots of
names repeated in various ways,
we'll need to be able to keep
track of what they really mean.
These things get drawn
for you automatically.
So here's the web
interface to what's
called the Online Python Tutor.
So here's the code that we
typed in from math import pi.
You can edit this.
And then you click
visualize execution
and you get your
code on your left
and your frames on the right.
And as you walk through
each line of code
by pressing forward, you see
the consequences of executing.
First is import statement,
bound the name pi to its value.
And the next thing
that happened,
is that the assignment
statement bound the name tau
to 2 times pi.
And here is the result
at the end of the day.
So when you're confused
about what a program does,
paste it in to the
Online Python Tutor
and it will show
you exactly what
happens throughout the
course of execution.
That's the whole point.
Okay, so that's what an
environment diagram looks like.
Now we can talk about exactly
what assignment statements do.
They change the bindings between
names and values in frames.
So here is-- there is
an environment diagram
for three lines of code.
Just executed with b equals 2.
Next to execute is this
larger assignment statement
that has two names
on the left and two
expressions on the right.
Now, there is an execution
rule for assignment statements
that you need to understand,
because Python always
does the same thing
over and over again.
And here's what it does
for assignment statements.
It evaluates all
of the expressions
to the right of equals
from left to right.
Then, after evaluating
all those expressions,
it binds all the names
to the left of equals
to the resulting values.
So in this case, here
are all the expressions
to the right of equals.
We get a plus b, which
evaluates to 1 plus 2 is 3.
So this evaluates to 3.
B evaluates to 2.
And then second step.
Bind all names to the left of
equals to the resulting values.
So b will be bound to 3
and a will be bound to 2,
the value of that expression.
Okay, so if we hit forward
in the environment diagram
generator, the just executed
arrow will now be on line 3
and the global frame will have
a bound to 2 and b bound to 3.
Okay, so now we can do
the complicated case
that I asked you to
solve by yourselves.
Let's just do it live
in the Python Tutor.
Okay, so here was the question.
What happens if I say f
equals min then f equals max,
then g,h equals min
max and max equals g,
then this large nested
call expression?
Well, let's watch
and see what happens.
So the first thing that
happens that f is bound to min.
This is the min function,
a representation
in the environment
diagram that's
similar to the
angled bracket thing
that you saw when
Python printed it out.
Then we bind f to max.
Now remember the
rule that a name
can be bound to at most,
one value in a frame.
So since we've rebound
f to max, we've
lost the binding
between f and min.
That's just gone.
Okay, now we say g and h
are bound to min and max.
So we evaluate min
as the min function,
we evaluate max as
the max function,
and we bind g and
h to min and max.
Notice, there's only
one min function.
There's only one max function.
But the max function
has two names, f and h.
The min function has the name g.
Now there's also the name
max for the max function,
and the name min for
the min function.
Those are built in, and they're
part of the global frame,
but we don't write them down,
because if we had to write down
all the built-in names,
then that would take up
too much space.
So we only write them
down when they change,
which is about to
be what happens.
So when I say max equals
g, using the execution
rule for assignment statements,
we first evaluate g.
G evaluates to the
min function, then
we bind the name
max to that value.
So now max means min.
Jeepers, that is
complicated, isn't it?
Okay, so then we say max of f
of 2, of g of h, of 1 and 5,
3 and 4.
And that involves evaluating
all of these different operand
expressions in turn.
Before I hit forward, let's
just watch how that goes.
So we can draw an
expression tree
that evaluates the operator
and operands of the call
expressions and the operand
subexpressions within them.
So remember the rule for
evaluating a call expression.
First you evaluate the
operator, which in this case,
is max the name refers to
the function which minimizes.
Then we evaluate the operands.
And the first operand
looks like that.
And we have to apply our rule
for evaluating call expressions
again.
Evaluate the operator,
evaluate the operands.
This operand is complex.
So we evaluate it.
G refers to the min.
We see that here in the
environment diagram.
h 1 and 5 is another
call expression.
We evaluate that by first
evaluating the operator.
h is the max function,
1 and 5 are 1 and 5.
And so the max of 1 and 5 is 5.
Now we take the min of
5 and 3 and we get 3.
Now we're going to take the
max of 2 and 3 and we'll get 3.
And then we'll take
the min of 3 and 4
and we will get 3, which is
the value of the whole thing.
Congratulations if you picked 3.